---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.0
category: release
---
Language Support:

1.  Full Text 1.0 and 3.0 support.
1.  MarkLogic 7.0 and 8.0 schema-components `KindType` tests.
1.  Saxon 9.8 `tuple` and `union` types, and `declare type` prolog statements.
1.  BaseX Full Text `fuzzy` option.
1.  Recover when `=` is used instead of `:=`.
1.  Improved multi-statement expression parsing and error reporting for MarkLogic 6.0, and
    W3C Scripting XQuery extensions.

Bug Fixes:

1.  Fix tokenizing `` `{...}` `` expressions outside XQuery 3.1 string interpolation contexts.
1.  Report a parser error when a `TypedFunctionTest` does not have a return type clause.
1.  Report a parse error when an unpaired `}` is used in direct element contents.
1.  Fix parsing pragmas with EQNames, and optional pragma contents.
1.  Fix resolving functions referenced in the current library module.
1.  Fix support for `ProcessCanceledException` thrown when creating PSI nodes.

Inspections:

1.  XPST0003: Final statement semicolon inspection for MarkLogic and Scripting Extension
    syntax differences.
1.  XPST0003: Reserved function inspection. This is split out from the unsupported construct
    inspection.
1.  XPST0003: Saxon/XQuery map key-value separators. This is split out from the unsupported
    construct inspection.
1.  XPST0017: Undefined function inspection. This is experimental, as it
    currently reports many false positives.
1.  XQST0031: Extend the inspection to check unsupported XQuery versions in different MarkLogic
    transactions, and check for `XDMP-XQUERYVERSIONSWITCH` errors.
1.  XQST0033: Duplicate namespace prefix.
1.  XPST0081: Unbound QName prefix.

IntelliJ Integration:

1.  Moved the MarkLogic run configuration to a separate plugin.
