---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.3
category: release
---
1.  Added support for the eXist-db XQuery database.
1.  Initial support for running queries on the BaseX, eXist-db, MarkLogic and
    Saxon XQuery processors.
1.  Support for Saxon 9.9 and BaseX 9.1 syntax extensions (see below).
1.  Support for the BaseX and Saxon built-in functions. Thanks to Bridger
    Dyson-Smith for adding these.
1.  Improved resolving imported modules, names, and functions (see below).

Saxon Vendor Extensions:

1.  Recognise Saxon `UnionType` constructs in `TypedMapTest` sequence types.
1.  Support `TupleType` constructs with names only, not associated sequence types.
1.  Support Saxon 9.8 simple inline function expressions.
1.  Support Saxon 9.9 `orElse` and `andAlso` logical expressions.
1.  Support Saxon 9.9 optional field names for tuples, and extensible tuples.
1.  Support `NCName` and `URIQualifiedName` types in the `union()` syntax.

BaseX Vendor Extensions:

1.  Support the BaseX 9.1 `TernaryIfExpr` conditional expressions.
1.  Support the BaseX 9.1 `ElvisExpr` conditional expressions.
1.  Support the BaseX 9.1 if expressions without else branches.

XQuery Working Draft 02 May 2003 and MarkLogic 0.9-ml Support:

1.  Support `empty()` syntax for `empty-sequence()`.

Invalid Syntax Recovery:

1.  Recover parsing when the `CompElemConstructor`, `CompAttrConstructor`,
    `CompPIConstructor`, or `CompNamespaceConstructor` tag name is a `StringLiteral`.
1.  Recover parsing when a `SequenceType` is used in a `ParenthesizedItemType`.

Static Context:

1.  Add the `sql` namespace to the MarkLogic static context, added in MarkLogic 7.0.
1.  Add support for the BaseX built-in functions and static context. Thanks to
    Bridger Dyson-Smith for providing the built-in function definitions.
1.  Add support for the Saxon built-in functions and static context. Thanks to
    Bridger Dyson-Smith for providing the built-in function definitions.
1.  Add support for EXPath and EXQuery module functions used by BaseX and Saxon
    as built-in functions and importable modules.

Module Import Resolution:

1.  Use project source roots to resolve module import URIs.
1.  Locate built-in definitions from `http://`-based `URILiteral` nodes.
1.  Resolve all location URIs in a `ModuleImport`, not just the first valid location.
1.  Resolve `ModuleImport` declarations that don't specify `at` paths.

EQName Resolution:

1.  Expand `NCName`-based `EQName` nodes, using the default element or function
    namespaces where appropriate.
1.  Resolve EQNames bound to `NamespaceDecl` declarations.
1.  Resolve EQNames bound to `DefaultNamespaceDecl` declarations.
1.  Resolve EQNames bound to `DirAttributeList` attributes.

Function Resolution:

1.  Matching statically-known functions against expanded QNames.
1.  Search the `MainModule`/`LibraryModule` prolog for function declarations.

Inspections:

1.  IJVS0001: Report warnings for constructs that require a different XQuery version.
