---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.5
category: release
---
References, Resolving and Find Usages:

1.  Fix resolving and finding usages of variables declared in imported modules.
1.  Fix find usages of locally declared and imported functions.
1.  Support the MarkLogic behaviour for resolving `NCName`-based `FunctionDecl`s.
1.  Fix resolving to imported functions from declarations other than the one declaring the namespace.
1.  Provide better type names in the find usages pane.
1.  Display the `EQName` type signature in the find usages pane.

IntelliJ Integration:

1.  File structure support, listing the declared functions, variables, and types,
    and the query body in a file.
1.  Display the functions, variables, and types when "Show Members" is enabled
    in the project pane.
1.  Display the function signature when holding Ctrl over a function call.
1.  Display the variable signature when holding Ctrl over a variable reference.
1.  Use the QName annotator on Wildcard elements to correctly highlight the
    namespace prefix and local name parts.

Code Completion:

1.  In-scope variable completion support in `VarRef` expressions for XQuery.
1.  Statically-known function completion support in `FunctionCall` and `ArrowExpr` expressions for XQuery.
1.  XML Schema and `union()` type completion support in `AtomicOrUnionType` and `SimpleTypeName` for XPath and XQuery.
1.  Namespace prefix completion support in `QName`s for XPath and XQuery.
1.  Keyword completion support in `ForwardAxis` and `ReverseAxis` for XPath and XQuery.
1.  Keyword completion support in `KindTest` based `NodeTest`s and `ItemType`s for XPath and XQuery.
1.  Keyword completion support in `SequenceType`s for XPath and XQuery.

Run Configurations:

1.  Link to the files when displaying query errors in the console.
1.  Support running XPath queries as XSLT patterns (XPath subset) on the Saxon
    query processor.
1.  Support profiling Saxon XSLT and XQuery scripts.
1.  Display the elapsed time and number of items returned by the query in the
    results console.
1.  Include the console output when profiling queries.

Query Processor Integration:

1.  Add a query log viewer for BaseX and MarkLogic log files.

Saxon:

1.  Fix using Saxon 9.2 to 9.8 JAR files.
1.  Disable Saxon EE optimizations to prevent the processor throwing a
    `NoClassDefFoundError` looking for `com/saxonica/ee/bytecode/GeneratedCode`.
1.  Support `union(...)` types in XPath expressions.
1.  Support `union(...)` types in `SingleType`s for XPath and XQuery.

BaseX:

1.  Add definitions for the BaseX 9.2 built-in functions.
1.  Add support for the `perm` annotations introduced in BaseX 9.0.

MarkLogic:

1.  Add definitions for the MarkLogic 10.0-1 built-in functions.
1.  Fix MarkLogic 6.0 `binary()` used as a `NodeTest`.
1.  Support the MarkLogic 6.0 `validate full` syntax extension.
1.  Improve support for the MarkLogic 7.0 schema syntax extensions.

XPath and XSLT:

1.  Enable XPath syntax validation of expressions and patterns in XSLT when the
    XPath View + XSLT plugin is disabled.
1.  Full Text 1.0 and 3.0 extensions support in the XPath lexer and parser.

XPath and XQuery:

1.  Fix parsing decimal `CharRef`s with a single digit, e.g. `"&#9;"`.
1.  Fix parsing a NameTest that is a named computed constructor keyword like
    `element` followed by a keyword that is part of a containing expression
    (e.g. `return`) and does not have an `EnclosedExpr`.
1.  Report an error when the `EnclosedExpr` is missing from named computed
    constructors.
1.  Report a parser error when a `NumericLiteral` is followed by an `NCName` or
    `URIQualifiedName` without whitespace or comment tokens, due to them being
    non-delimiting terminal symbols.
1.  Report an error if an unknown axis name is followed by the `::` axis indicator.
1.  When recovering parser errors in a main module with a prolog, preserve the
    prolog context in the subsequent partial expressions.

Inspections:

1.  XPST0017: Enable the undefined function inspection by default.
1.  XQST0047: Don't generate an error on `ModuleImport`s without a namespace prefix.
