---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.4
category: release
---
IntelliJ Integration:

1.  Register the XSLT 3.0 schema with IntelliJ.
1.  Display the first comment line when the comment is folded.
1.  Support profiling MarkLogic queries.
1.  Support configuring the namespace prefix colour.

Bug Fixes:

1.  Fix an issue with run configuration settings not saving in IntelliJ 2018.3
    and later.
1.  Don't highlight xqDoc tags in non-xqDoc comments.
1.  Don't throw an IllegalCharsetNameException if the encoding string spans to
    the next line.

XPath and XQuery:

1.  Support the expath-ng variadic function arguments proposal.
1.  Fix parsing QNames in NameTests where the prefix is `attribute`,
    `element`, `every`, `exit`, `namespace`, `processing-instruction`,
    `return`, or `some`.
1.  Fix parsing NCNames in FunctionCalls and NameTests where the
    prefix is `some`, or `every`.
1.  Fix parsing  ``` ``[`{...}`...`]`` ``` -- `StringConstructorInterpolation`
    at the start of a `StringConstructor`.
1.  Split out the core XPath 2.0, 3.0, and 3.1 syntax into an XPath lexer and
    parser.

Static Context:

1.  Add support for the eXist-db built-in functions and static context. Thanks
    to Bridger Dyson-Smith for providing the built-in function definitions.
1.  Add the `err` and `output` namespaces to the BaseX static context.

Function Resolution:

1.  Correctly match functions with variadic function arguments.

Inspections:

1.  XPST0017: Fix the arity check for variadic functions.
1.  XPST0118: Don't crash on code like `</<test/>`.
