---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.8.1
category: release
---
1. Query log viewer filtering and syntax highlighting support.
1. Support for using internal named AWS instances in query processors.
1. Updated built-in functions for BaseX 9.4 and MarkLogic 10.0-5.
1. Bug fixes.

XPath, XQuery, and XSLT:

1. Better error recovery when an `AxisStep` is used in `CatchClause` or `xsl:nametests`.
1. Updated the BaseX built-in functions to 9.4. Thanks to Bridger Dyson-Smith for adding these.
1. Updated the MarkLogic built-in functions to 10.0-5.

Run Configurations:

1. Support query processors for servers running on internal AWS instances.
1. Fix returning all results from an eXist-db query when there are more than 10 results.
1. Support eXist-db error messages that return html pages.
1. Support running MarkLogic queries with lower privileges when the module root matches the server configuration.
1. Preserve the database and server settings when the query processor fails with an exception.
1. Use the selected processor from the manage query processors dialog in the run configuration when pressing OK.

Code Completion:

1. Fix completing `AtomicOrUnionType` names when a prefix is specified, and the
   default type namespace is the XMLSchema namespace.

Inspections:

1. Don't crash when the conformance element is empty (e.g. it is on a parser error).

Query Log Viewer:

1. Support colouring MarkLogic ErrorLog.txt, BaseX, and eXist-db log files based on log level.
1. Support navigating to files referenced in MarkLogic ErrorLog.txt exceptions.
1. Support filtering logs by the log level.
1. Remember the server, log file, and log level selection between sessions.
1. Fix displaying the log viewer when opening a new project into the IDE window.
1. Don't clear the log viewer when an error is from a previously selected query processor.
1. Update the server list when the query processors are modified.
