---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.6
category: release
---
References and Resolving:

1.  Support `BracedURILiteral` references (`Q{...}`).
1.  Support navigating to Java classes specified by `java:` and unprefixed
    classpath URIs (BaseX, eXist-db, Saxon).
1.  Fix resolving `URIQualifiedName` functions and variables.
1.  Add definitions for the MarkLogic 10.0-3 built-in functions.

Semantic Highlighting:

1.  Fixed QName prefix semantic highlighting and keyword in QName highlighting
    removal when the QName contains a space.
1.  Display the correct type name in the find usages UI for EQNames that are
    annotations, attributes, decimal formats, elements, functions, namespaces,
    options, parameters, pragmas, types, and variables in XQuery and XPath.
1.  Semantic highlighting of usage types for annotations, attributes, decimal
    formats, elements, functions, namespace declarations, options, parameters,
    pragmas, types, and variables in XQuery and XPath.
1.  Make XSLT elements use the template language colour style by default.

IntelliJ Integration:

1.  Rename refactoring support for variables and functions.
1.  Implement inlay parameter hints for XQuery function calls and named arrow
    function expressions.
1.  Support quick documentation (Ctrl+Q) for W3C XQuery functions.
1.  Support quick documentation (Ctrl+Q) for MarkLogic functions.
1.  Support displaying the XQuery file structure view in the navigation bar on
    IntelliJ 2020.1.
1.  Provide spellchecking support with bundled dictionaries for XPath, XQuery,
    and XSLT terms.
1.  Support context information (Alt+Q) for XQuery function declarations.
1.  Display the namespace signature and module path when holding Ctrl over a
    module namespace URI or prefix.

Run Configurations:

1.  Don't crash on the run configurations page if there are no query processors.
1.  Support using Saxon 10.
