---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.7
category: release
---
1.  Display MarkLogic rewriter and EXQuery RESTXQ endpoints in IntelliJ
    Ultimate's Endpoint tool window.
1.  Support for debugging MarkLogic XQuery-based queries, with experimental
    expression breakpoint support.
1.  Improved eXist-db and FusionDB support.
1.  Support for MarkLogic Roxy and ml-gradle project source root detection.
1.  Add icons to the query processors and document sources.

MarkLogic:

1.  Support stopping MarkLogic queries.
1.  Support registering MarkLogic schema files.
1.  Support for debugging MarkLogic XQuery-based queries.

eXist-db / FusionDB:

1.  Detect FusionDB so it is correctly displayed in the query processor lists.
1.  Display the log files in the Query Log panel.
1.  Fixed calling APIs that require specific permissions that the query
    processor user has.
1.  Fix displaying `node()` and `function(*)` types in the query results view.

BaseX:

1.  Fix validating beta releases in the query processor UI.

Run Configurations:

1.  Fixed scrolling to an item in the results pane when the detected filetype
    is plain text.
1.  Fixed a null pointer exception when processing MarkLogic syntax error
    responses.
1.  Fixed navigating to module paths in query errors.
1.  Add icons to the query processors.

Module Imports:

1.  Support resolving MarkLogic imports from a configured database install path.
1.  Support resolving imports from the Roxy `xquery.dir` property path.
1.  Support resolving imports from the ml-gradle `mlModulePaths` property paths.

Endpoints:

1.  Support autocompleting multi-valued `match-method` elements in MarkLogic rewriter files.
1.  Support displaying MarkLogic rewriter files in the Endpoints tool window.
1.  Support displaying EXQuery RESTXQ endpoints in the Endpoints tool window.

Documentation:

1.  Fix the return type in the MarkLogic documentation.
1.  Add icons to the documentation sources.

Code Completion:

1.  Include declared variables without a namespace prefix in the completion list.

Inlay Parameter Hints:

1.  Don't display a hint when the variable name matches the parameter name.
1.  Don't display a hint when the path step element/attribute name matches the parameter name.
1.  Don't display a hint when the forward/reverse step name matches the parameter name.
