---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.9.0
category: release
---
1. XRay unit test run configurations and IntelliJ integration.
1. XProc 1.0-3.0 syntax highlighting and validation.
1. XPath, XQuery, and XSLT 4.0 Editor's Draft 13 January 2021 support.
1. MarkLogic ErrorLog.txt file syntax highlighting in the editor.

XPath, XQuery, and XSLT 4.0 Editor's Draft 13 January 2021:

1. Add the XSLT 4.0 Editor's Draft XMLSchema file.
1. Support any `ItemType` on `LocalUnionType` and `TypedMapTest`.
1. Support nesting `TernaryConditionalExpr` expressions.
1. Support `->` in addition to `function` in `InlineFunctionExpr` expressions,
   with optional function signatures.
1. Support `->` based `ArrowExpr` expressions.
1. Support named arguments in function calls.
1. Support `RecordTest` and `EnumerationType` item types.
1. Support `StringLiteral` and `VarRef` for `Lookup` and `UnaryLookup`.
1. Support `WithExpr` expressions.
1. Support `type` in `DefaultNamespaceDecl` declarations in XQuery.
1. Support item type declarations in XQuery.

XQuery:

1. Support resolving wildcard prefixes to the namespace declaration.
1. Fix an exception in code completion when typing in a comment after a variable reference.
1. Show public/private icons in the file structure view.

XProc:

1. Recognise xpl files as XProc XML files.
1. Add the XProc 1.0 and 3.0 RNG schema file.
1. Syntax highlighting for schema type, including `p:inline` value templates.

XRay Unit Tests:

1. Add an XRay run configuration.
1. Support running and profiling XRay unit tests.
1. Add run actions in the line marker area.
1. Support run actions on the context menu for files and directories.
1. Report test status in the run console.

Semantic Highlighting:

1. Fix highlighting `xmlns` namespace prefix in contexts other than XML attributes.
1. Fix highlighting variables that do not resolve to a variable declaration or binding.
1. Fix highlighting wildcard element and attribute names.
1. Highlight the `CompNamespaceConstructor` name as a namespace prefix.
1. Highlight `KeySeparator` names and `RecordTest` field names as map keys.
1. Highlight `PITest` and `CompPIConstructor` names as processing instructions.
1. Highlight `KeywordArgument` names as parameters.
1. Highlight `WithExpr` using the same logic as `DirAttribute`.

Run Configuration:

1. Support using the modules database for selected MarkLogic app-server.
1. Filter the app-servers to the ones that match the selected database.
1. Fix some encoding issues in handling UTF-8 output for MarkLogic.
1. Fix reformatting the output when the option is specified in the configuration.
1. Fix locating relative modules and includes in Saxon queries.

Debugging:

1. Fix displaying the expression breakpoint range in the editor.
