---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.9.1
category: release
---
Inlay Parameters:

1. Don't display inlay parameter hints when a `UnaryLookup` or `Lookup` name matches the parameter name.
1. Don't display inlay parameter hints when the name at the end of a `SimpleMapExpr` matches the parameter name.

Syntax Highlighting:

1. Default to the XML entity reference colours for entity references in XQuery.
1. Workaround [IDEA-234709](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-234709) to correctly highlight XML namespace
   prefices when using the Darcula theme.

XPath:

1. Fix parsing entity references before closing string quotes, such as `'&amp;'`.

References and Resolve:

1. Fix locating the function name when the function declaration contains a compatibility annotation.
1. Fix locating the variable name when the variable declaration contains a compatibility annotation.

Code Folding:

1. Fix detecting empty enclosed expressions that contain an XQuery comment.
1. Fix the code folding placeholder text for some enclosed expressions.

Code Completion:

1. Fix a crash when autocompleting in a `StringLiteral` from an arrow function call.

Syntax Validation:

1. Don't warn if using an `InlineFunctionExpr` with parameters when targetting XQuery 3.0 or 3.1.

XRay Tests:

1. Fix running the XRay tests on IntelliJ 2019.3 due to a missing "Console" message string.
1. Fix various crashes when parsing XRay test result output.
1. Fix test suites and test suite statistics for module-level errors in the HTML and XUnit XML output formats.
1. Fix serializing XML expected/actual values in Text, HTML, and XRay XML output formats.

MarkLogic:

1. Display the MarkLogic vendor code in query errors when no standard code is provided.
