---
layout: post
title: XQuery IntelliJ Plugin 1.9.2
category: release
---
1. In-place rename refactoring support for variables.
2. Support for `@apply` and `@at` in MarkLogic search option custom facet extensions within XQuery code.
3. Update the built-in function definitions to eXist-db 5.3.
4. Code folding for the remaining `{...}` constructs.
5. Bug fixes and general improvements.

IntelliJ Integration:

1. Add paired brace matching for Saxon context item and lambda functions.
2. Add paired brace matching for XPath expressions.
3. Add code commenting support for XPath.

Code Folding:

1. Add code folding for XQuery string interpolations.
2. Add code folding for Full Text, Updating, Scripting, and vendor extension expressions containing braces (`{...}`).

Syntax and Semantic Highlighting:

1. Highlight `=` in XML attributes as attribute values to match IntelliJ's highlighting behaviour.
2. Highlight direct processing instruction node (`<?xml ...?>`) tokens.

References and Resolving:

1. Fix resolving elements to `xmlns` nodes where the namespace URI is not also bound to a prefix.

Refactoring:

1. Support in-place rename refactoring for variables, except for private variable declarations.

XPath and XQuery:

1. Fix parsing `FTContainsExpr` in the RHS of a `ComparisonExpr` in XPath expressions.
2. Improve the error message when a `return` is used without a `ForExpr` or `LetExpr` in XPath expressions.
3. Don't generate an error when parsing `?$` and `?($)`, where the `VarName` is missing.
4. Improve the error message when a `QName` is used in a `DirPIConstructor`.

eXist-db:

1. Update the built-in function definitions to eXist-db 5.3. Thanks to Juri Leino for providing
   the built-in function definitions.

MarkLogic Rewriter XML Integration:

1. Cache the endpoints to improve the line marker performance when the data has been previously calculated.
2. In the Endpoints tool window navigate to the module file, not the rewriter XML element that references it.

MarkLogic Search Options XML Integration:

1. Support resolving `parse/@at`, `start-facet/@at`, and `finish-facet/@at` attribute values in XQuery direct
   constructors to the XQuery/MJS/SJS file they reference.
2. Support resolving `parse/@apply`, `start-facet/@apply`, and `finish-facet/@apply` attribute values in XQuery
   direct constructors to the XQuery function they reference.
3. Add line markers to functions referenced by custom facets in search options XQuery direct constructors.
